[opening theme song playing]
KOTARO LIVES ALONE
-[indistinct chatter]
-[cute music playing]
[girl] Kotaro.
-[Kotaro Hmm?
-[Karino] Hmm?
Kana?
I'm coming over to play
at your house afterschool today. Okay?
[Kotaro] You are?
[woman] Oh, Karino?
Nice to meet you.
My name's Sawaguchi. I'm Kana's Mom.
[Karino] Oh, uh, nice to meet you too.
So, um,
Kana wanted to know is she could play
at Kotaro's house this afternoon?
Would that be all right?
Oh. Well, uh…
[Kotaro] I have no objections
to the request.
Yeah. What he said.
Great. Thank you. I'll pick her up later.
Kana, I'll see you tonight. Be good, okay?
[woman 2] Have you heard yet?
[Karino] What is up
with this awkward silence?
So do you two, like,
hang out a lot together at school?
[both] Not really.
Okay.
But I guess being
in the same class means we're friends.
Kotaro, tell me, what kind of games
do you have at your house?
[Kotaro] Would you like to play
inside or outside?
[Kana] Inside.
It's too cold to play outside today.
KOTARO SATO
[music fades]
[Karino] Why did Kana
even wanna come over to play?
May I ask, why are you sitting here
with us instead of going home?
Well, uh,
Kana's mother decided
to leave you guys in my care for the day.
So is there, like,
a game you two wanna play?
Um…
How about a game of cards, then?
Aye. Good idea.
Have you played Old Maid?
Obviously.
THE NEXT DAY
[bird squawking]
Uh, Kana asked
if she could come over again today.
Is that okay?
Uh…
Splendid.
[whimsical music playing]
Kotaro, I hope you've planned
something more fun to do today.
-[Kotaro] Hmm?
-We played Old Maid for hours.
I've never been so bored
playing cards in my life.
He's right.
There isn't really anything fun
to do at your apartment, Kotaro.
I was pretty bored.
[Karino] Ooh. She's calling you out.
Bored? Well, I…
I will admit, adult women always find me
more captivating than girls my age.
[Karino sighs] Unbelievable.
Mind if she comes over again?
And today?
Kana says she wants to play again today.
Do you mind if she comes over?
[Karino] Kana's so bored
playing with Kotaro.
I don't get
why she keeps asking to come over.
Kana, I do not mind
your company in the least.
However, wouldn't you have a lot more fun
if you were to go over
to your actual friends houses?
You are quite popular in school.
I have seen you play
with many of our classmates during recess.
I know, but I don't mind
playing with you also.
Plus, my mom said to.
[Kotaro] Oh.
[Karino] Hmm?
[Sawaguchi] Kana,
I'll see you tonight. Be good, okay?
[woman] Have you heard yet?
Kana's dad lost his job,
and they had to sell the house.
Really? I can't even imagine.
That poor kid.
[bird cooing]
Hey, uh, Ms. Sawaguchi?
Do you have a second to talk?
Hmm? Y-yeah.
Here's the thing.
I don't think Kana should
come over to play anymore.
[Sawaguchi gasps]
You've been making her come over here
because you're afraid her friends'
families are better off than yours,
and you don't want her to see that.
[Sawaguchi gasps]
And if that's the case, what does that say
about how you view Kotaro?
He's just a kid trying to do the best
with his living situation.
Maybe you shouldn't
take advantage of that.
You don't know anything!
I wasn't trying to hurt him!
I honestly thought it was a win-win.
I mean,
he doesn't seem to have a lot of friends.
I thought…
Well, you thought wrong.
Maybe next time
you'll think a little harder.
[somber music playing]
[bird squawking]
[Sawaguchi] Hey, Kana.
Do you like playing at Kotaro's house?
[Kana] No. Not really.
-But it's okay.
-Huh?
'Cause you seem happy
when I play at his house.
Mama, I don't mind
playing with him for you.
[Sawaguchi gasps]
[Kana grunts]
-[Sawaguchi] I'm sorry.
-Huh?
[Sawaguchi] I'm so sorry, Kana.
Look at this.
-A handmade sugoroku game.
-[whimsical music playing]
Now Kana cannot say
it is boring at my house.
You are either very noble or very dumb.
[music fades]
[Kotaro breathing intensely]
[Kotaro grunting]
[Karino yawning]
What are you doing? You shadow boxing?
You sure have a lot of energy
in the morning.
[panting] Aye.
It is important to start the day right.
[breathing intensely]
Daily exercise… [breathing]
…will help make me strong.
[Karino] He really thinks that getting
stronger will make is father love him.
Poor kid.
[birds chirping]
Today we'll read the story of the peach.
[children] Okay!
[boy] Um, Ms. Tohko?
What's wrong, Kei? You all right?
I don't feel good. I'd like to go home.
[Tohko] Oh no!
I hope you don't have a fever.
Why don't I call your mom to pick you up.
Kei gets sick
more than anyone else I know.
Yeah. He got fever yesterday.
Ooh. Come… come over here!
Wait for me!
-[Kei] Kotaro?
-Kei, good sir.
I brought you the dessert
from my bento so you'll feel better.
-Here. Take it.
-[Kei] Huh?
It is imperative
that you get your daily vitamins
in order to stay healthy.
Understand?
You need to become stronger
so you won't
keep getting colds all of the time.
THE NEXT DAY
[indistinct chatter]
Hey, Kotaro. Are you okay?
-[Kotaro groaning]
-You don't look good.
[dazedly] What are you implying,
my dear lady?
I am a pillar of health.
Oh no! Your forehead's burning up.
Perhaps your hand is the problem
and not my head.
I do not feel hot in the least.
[Tohko] No. I think maybe--
[Kotaro] I am not sick, I tell you!
[Tohko] Kotaro, please calm down!
Getting excited might make it worse.
How about we just go
to the nurse's office?
[Kotaro grunting] I will not go!
I am not sick!
I am strong!
I am a pillar of health!
Thanks for coming.
Kotaro is running a fever.
He needs to go home
so he can rest and get better.
This is what you get for running around
and making yourself
all sweaty in the morning.
I'm not surprised you caught a cold.
[Kotaro] I do not have a cold!
I feel fine!
[Karino] Liar!
Now stop that, and let's go home!
[Kotaro] The strong
do not succumb to colds.
Therefore, I do not have a cold.
[Karino] What the hell
am I supposed to say to that?
[Kei] Ms. Tohko,
I'm starting to not feel very good again.
[Tohko] Oh no.
Well, let's get you back to the nurse.
[footsteps receding]
[birds chirping]
-[Kotaro] Sir Kei.
-[Kei] Hmm?
Why are you so quick
to admit your weaknesses
in front of the entire class?
You constantly go home sick.
Do you not care
what they all think of you?
I'd much rather stay here at school
with all of my classmates,
but my body isn't as strong
as everyone else's.
It's easier for me to get sick.
I think it's worse
to get all of my friends sick
than it is to let them think
what they want about me.
[somber music playing]
[chuckles] That's why
I always say when I feel sick.
[gasping]
-[Kotaro] I am sorry.
-Huh?
It was wrong of me
to assume that you are weak.
You, sir, are very strong.
Thank you.
You too!
[Kei giggles]
[Kotaro] Sir Karino,
I think there may be more to strength
than just a healthy body.
If you're not feeling well,
I could give you a piggyback ride home.
You needed the whole box?
If I want to heal quickly,
I'll need all the vitamins I can get.
[Karino grunting, straining]
[doorbell rings]
[Ayano] Good morning!
This is a surprise.
I did not expect to see you
until later this week.
Yes. Well, I have a favor to ask you.
Would you possibly accompany me
on an errand today?
I've made a reservation,
so please grab your things.
[Kotaro] You seem
more out of sorts than usual.
[whimsical music playing]
A private showing?
Yes! You see, I've been saving my money
to buy a new apartment!
This might be the most perfect one
on the market today!
But I was nervous
to go to the showing alone,
and then I thought about you!
You know so much about living on your own,
I had hoped that you would be able
to share all of your expertise with me!
[Kotaro] Lady Kobayashi, please.
There is no need to yell on this train.
-Right!
-Aye.
If that is the case,
I would be willing to help you out.
Thank you so much!
You are being far too loud.
[man] Uh,
welcome to the Sanien Apartments.
We'll be looking at Unit 305.
Yes!
Hmm? Is something wrong?
Just checking for visible damage.
Understood! Good thinking!
Well, shall we go in?
[footsteps receding]
[man] This unit just hit the market
a few days ago.
It's been pretty popular already.
We've had multiple requests for showings.
[Ayano] Yes! I can see why.
So take a look around.
If you need anything, just ask.
Got it!
[Ayano] Kotaro, I brought a few things
to help us better picture the space!
Living room, first!
To really get a feel for the space,
I brought a TV and table.
A futon and pillows for the bedroom!
And a full bath set for the bathroom!
Using props is a great way
to get a feel for a space!
It helps me
envision this place as my home!
What do you think? You like it?
Aye. It's a decent home.
[Ayano] He doesn't look very happy.
Was it a bad idea to bring him here?
You wanna take the kid
to a private showing?
Yes. It went on the market today.
This might be our only chance.
[man] Why are you so adamant about this.
What apartment is it?
[Ayano] The Sanien Apartments, Unit 305.
[man] Isn't that where…
[Ayano sighs] Yes. it's the apartment
where Kotaro and his parents used to live.
[Kotaro] Lady Kobayashi?
Did you, by chance,
read the journal entries
written to my benefactor?
Yeah. I did. I'm sorry.
Please don't be mad.
[sighs]
[man] But Kobayashi,
there are probably a lot more
painful memories for Kotaro in that house
than there are good ones.
You know that, right?
I did think about that,
but…
[somber music playing]
[Kotaro] On October 15th,
I found a strange-shaped stain
on the ceiling of my room.
I remembered that there was a similar mark
somewhere in the house
I lived in with my parents.
Though, now thinking back,
I cannot say where it was.
I wonder how that house is now.
It would be nice to know the house
that we called home was still flourishing.
I kinda gotta lock up.
Uh, yes.
[man] Hey, kiddo,
hope this was enough time
for you to check the place out.
Uh… [sighs]
[man] Uh…
[Ayano] Do you think
you could give us a little more time?
We just need a couple more minutes.
It's not for us.
[man] What?
-[birds chirping]
-[leaves rustling]
[footsteps approaching]
Hey. Are you out here
looking for leaves to eat too?
Aye. I find them
to be abundant in this area.
[whining] Brother!
I'm so hungry!
Okay. Just give me a sec. All right?
Question,
why are you wearing sandals in the winter?
I imagine your feet are quite cold.
These are the only ones I have that fit.
It isn't like I've got money
to buy new ones.
I see.
Guess you're poor too, huh?
That's why you're eating leaves?
I am not without money, but I find
I can save on food costs this way.
So your mom made you come out here too?
She did not.
I reside in my own apartment
without my mother or my father.
[girl] It's time for food!
Hungry!
-I get that.
-[girl whining]
-[Kotaro] Hmm?
-[boy grunts]
Hey. Could you keep an eye
on my younger siblings for a minute?
-[girl] What?
-I gotta take care of something.
That's no problem at all,
Should we stay here and wait for you?
Sure.
[children] Hmm?
[kids crying, wailing]
Brother!
I need to get you both back home.
If we stay here any longer,
it will become too dark to see.
I wonder. Do you know how to get home?
LIGHTLY SALTED POTATO CHIPS
[both gasping] Brother!
[both] Brother!
-[boy 2] You have snacks!
-[girl] Thanks!
Does it really matter?
[kids munching]
Sometimes I just need a minute to myself
where I don't have to worry
about these two, you know?
They thought you left them.
They cried the whole day without you.
So what if I did leave?
Our mother already left us.
Dad started a whole new family,
Mom's been gone for months.
She left some money and a note
saying she'd be back soon.
She said because I'm the older brother
it's now my job to take care
of my little brother and sister.
So then why would you disregard
your mother's final instructions?
That is a promise you must never break.
[scoffing]
Seriously?
I thought if anyone
would understand, it would be you.
[Kotaro] Why me?
'Cause we're the same!
Thrown away like trash,
forgotten by our parents.
[Kotaro] That's wrong!
We were not thrown away!
We were thrown away!
No, sir! We were not thrown away!
We were not thrown away! It's not true!
Whatever! I'm going home.
[footsteps receding]
[somber music playing]
Listen.
Mommy won't be living
with you and Daddy anymore.
[sobbing]
[Kotaro] Where are you going, Mommy?
[Kotaro's mom] Mommy's… [crying]
I'm not going to be able
to take care of you anymore.
You'll have to take care of yourself now.
Be strong,
and we'll be together again one day.
-Understand?
-Yes.
[Kotaro's mom] Just keep…
[crying]
…putting one foot in front of the other.
SEVERAL DAYS LATER
[woman] Oh. Did you hear what happened?
The kids who were living here
were taken away by child services.
A friend told me their parents
hadn't come home in months.
What kind of a parent
just abandons their children?
[woman] It's just awful.
[Kotaro] They were not abandoned.
-[bird chirping]
-[thudding]
You're gonna damage your futon
hitting it like that.
[yelling] Wonderful observation!
Good morrow to you, sir!
Man, you sure have a lot of energy.
What's gotten into you today?
I have decided to live my life with gusto!
[Kotaro grunting]
[cute music playing]
[Mizuki] Mmm!
It's delicious!
A thank you gift from our landlady
for watching over their home
while they were away.
[Mizuki] Thank you so much
for sharing these with me, Kotaro!
I can't remember the last time
I had so many amazing treats.
[Kotaro] Simply a "thank you"
for the other day.
[Karino] Sorry for the wait.
Here. Green tea.
Truly, warm green tea is the best
complement to sweet treats.
Right?
Japanese treats
always goes best with green tea.
[both sip, exhale]
Karino, good sir.
You are once again in my room uninvited.
Yeah! What's up with that?
Well, I do look after you all the time,
so don't you think
I've earned some treats?
I never once requested,
nor do I need your guardianship.
[Karino grunting]
On the other hand,
it is a lot of food for just us.
Maybe it wouldn't be so bad
if Karino stuck around.
Yeah. Exactly.
Perhaps I will bring a plate
to Sir Tamaru.
That's a good idea.
What do you wanna bet
he'll freak out and cry tears of joy?
[laughs] Sounds about right.
-What are you doing?
-[cell phone vibrating]
It's my job as a manga artist
to stay up-to-date with current events.
MIZUKI RE: I WAS WRONG
MEET WITH ME. I WANT TO TALK.
[Mizuki sighs]
[anchor] Finally,
this popular series is coming to theaters.
[Tonosaman] Tonosaman The Movie!
Tonosaman says…
One, always start your day
with a balanced breakfast!
Two, you must always do your homework!
Three, an energetic child
is a strong child!
Please help me, Tonosaman!
[Tonosaman theme music playing]
[Tonosaman grunting]
[Tonosaman] Apologies
for keeping you waiting!
Tonosaman The Movie!
The Return of Tonosaman!
Collect all the trading cards
for a limited time!
-[twinkling]
-Tonosaman!
[Karino] They made that crap into a movie?
-[Kotaro] Spectacular news!
-[Mizuki sighing heavily]
Kotaro, I bet you can't wait to see it!
[Kotaro] Indeed! I strive
to live a life like the great Tonosaman.
His unyielding iron will,
his indomitable spirit and heart!
He's a king among men!
One day I will become
as strong as Tonosaman!
[grunting]
Careful with that!
You're gonna poke your eye out!
-Become strong. Huh.
-[Kotaro grunting]
-[Karino] Hey. Watch it!
[crickets chirping]
-Hey, Mizuki!
-[Mizuki gasps]
[birds chirping]
Oh, hey. You're back, Kotaro!
Lady Mizuki, may I ask
what has happened to your cheek?
-[Mizuki gasps]
-[Karino] Cheek?
[Mizuki] You always see
right through me, Kotaro.
[Karino] What? Your boyfriend?
I told him
I didn't want to see him anymore,
but I guess he didn't like that.
I said I needed space,
but he started waiting for me
outside of work and following me home.
[Karino] Are you serious?
-And then yesterday, he actually hit me.
-[somber music playing]
[Karino gasps]
I really probably
should have broken up with him months ago.
You know, when we first started dating,
he was sweet.
After a while, he seemed
more interested in my money than me.
And then he got mean.
But I was too scared
to leave him, so I just stayed.
Mizuki, I'm so sorry that happened,
but you need to go to the police.
If you're scared, I can come with you.
Or you can just let me
beat him up for you.
How long have you been standing there?
Also, more violence
is never the answer to violence.
-What?
-[Kotaro] Lady Mizuki.
Your best recourse is to leave your abode.
[Mizuki gasps]
Come on.
Do you really think that's necessary?
Your boyfriend knows
the location of this apartment.
Your safest option
is to leave here immediately,
quit your job, and go somewhere
where he cannot find you.
But I promised you!
I said that I would stay here and live--
-[Kotaro] Nonsense!
-Like I said before,
I think that the best option
is to just let me handle this guy.
I think we need
to report him to the police.
[Kotaro] None of you understand.
You need to get away quickly
before things escalate any further!
[groans] Man, that kid.
[birds chirping]
[doorbell rings]
Yes?
Kotaro?
-[door opens, closes]
-[Mizuki sighing]
[doorbell rings]
10 MINUTES LATER
10 MINUTES AFTER THAT
Kotaro!
[Kotaro] Hmm?
[Mizuki sighing] So is this your plan?
Keep pestering me till I move?
Do you really want me gone that bad?
Look. I'm gonna try to go
to the police like Karino suggested.
Then I won't have to move.
Listen to me, my lady.
You do not want to be the reason
someone you love becomes a bad guy.
[Mizuki gasps]
[Kotaro] I could be mistaken, but it seems
to me you still love your boyfriend.
[emotional music playing]
[Kotaro] I agree.
You do need to break up with him,
but you don't want to make things worse
than they already are.
I know this
because I turned my father into a bad guy.
Lady Mizuki, do not make
the same mistakes that I did.
[sighing heavily]
[crying]
It's so hard. [crying]
It wasn't all bad.
There were good times too.
[Kotaro] I know.
It's never easy.
[bird squawking]
Guess you're really leaving. Huh, Mizuki?
Thank you for everything.
Take care of yourself.
[Karino] Yo! Why are you wearing the mask?
[Kotaro] 'Tis none of your concern.
[Mizuki] Hey, Kotaro.
I don't think you should blame yourself
for what happened to your father.
In the long run, who knows,
maybe something good will come out of it.
I did call the police in the end,
and it was your strength
that helped me do that.
Wait. So you don't need to leave then.
[Mizuki] Well,
there wasn't enough evidence
to arrest him,
so he could still come looking for me.
It's just safer for everyone if I go.
[crying]
[sniffling]
I'm so sorry, Kotaro.
I know I promised you
we'd be together forever.
[Kotaro] I remember
no such promise.
[emotional music playing]
[sniffling]
[music crescendos]
Thank you for everything.
[crying]
I love you!
You can take that silly mask off.
No one here is going to judge you
if you're crying right now.
[Kotaro] You are mistaken.
You know, if you need a hug, I'm here--
[Kotaro] Unnecessary.
[both sighing]
[Isamu] You're so stubborn.
[Kotaro] He's headstrong.
[Kotaro] Quiet, both of you.
[ending theme song playing]
[music fades]